Hello, and welcome back
to the course on Deep Learning.
We're finally at the part on Auto Encoders.
We've gone through quite a lot of different models
in this course, we've already talked
about Artificial Neural Networks,
Convolution Neural Networks and Recurrent Neural Networks,
and that summarized the Supervised
Deep Learning side of things.
Now, we are in Unsupervised branch of Deep Learning.
And we've already talked about Self-Organizing Maps,
Boltzmann Machines and now,
we're proceeding Auto Encoders.
Congratulations that you've gotten this far in the course,
and it's been a very exciting journey,
and now we're proceeding to the final stage.
So, let's get started.
What is an Auto Encoder?
Well, this is what an Auto Encoder looks like.
Right away by the colors, you can tell the good news
that we're back to the directed types of neural networks.
And this is a director type neural network.
The blue lines don't have arrows on the ends,
but we'll just agree that it is a directed type of network
and everything's moving from left to right.
How does Auto Encoder work, and what's the whole purpose
of an Auto Encoder?
Well, just as the name suggests, an Auto Encoder
encodes itself, that's the purpose of what is doing,
or the whole philosophy behind the Auto Encoder.
That it takes some sort of inputs,
put some through a hidden layer,
and then it gets outputs, but it aims for the outputs
to be identical to the inputs.
That's what it's trying to do,
that's how you are going to be training Auto Encoders
to set them up in such a way that on the output you get
values which are equivalent to your inputs.
From that you can tell that Auto Encoders are not a pure
type of Unsupervised Deep Learning algorithm.
They are actually a self-supervised Deep Learning algorithm,
because they are comparing to something on the end.
Remember, in Boltzmann Machines we didn't even have outputs.
We didn't have to compare to any kind of labels or anything.
And in Self-Organizing Maps, the same thing we didn't have
anything to compare to, we're just looking for features.
We're just looking for things.
Whereas here we are looking for things, we're looking
for this hidden layer, which is also called the coding layer
or the bottleneck.
We're looking for how to structure it, but at the same time,
we are comparing the outputs to certain values,
which are the inputs.
So, it's kind of on the verge between supervised
and unsupervised, but we'll stick to unsupervised
for Auto Encoders, and that's pretty much how it works.
So, you have inputs, they get encoded, and then they get
decoded and they're compared,
and through that the training happens.
As you'll see, because of all the things we already know,
from the previous parts of this course,
it'll be very easy for you to understand Auto Encoders.
They're a quite a simple model when you combine
all the things that you already know and right away now
we just talked about the process,
how they compare the output the inputs,
and you can already imagine how information
is propagated this way, and then you have gradient descent
going the other way.
We'll talk about all those things, but just be prepared
that this part of the course is gonna be pretty easy
for you, and you're going to most likely breeze through it,
especially if you've been through the other
parts of the course already.
One more thing on the slide
is what are Auto Encoders used for?
Well, there's a couple of things that they can be used for.
They can be used for feature detection.
So, once you've encoded your data, these nodes
will represent certain features which are important
in your data, and then you can just look at them
and get those features out of them,
or basically use those features in the future.
They can also be used to build powerful recommender systems,
as you'll see from the practical tutorials in this course.
And they can be used for encoding, basically,
as they're designed, they are designed to encode data
and you could take data with lots and lots of values,
encoded into a smaller representation,
and then all you'll have to carry around
is this auto encoder or this decoder part
and your encoded data, so it would take up less space.
That's another use case for Auto Encoders.
All right, that was a quick breakdown of the architecture
of Auto Encoders, and now let's have have a look
at an example of how they actually work,
so we can understand them better on an intuitive level.
There's a simplified auto encoder,
with just four input nodes,
and two nodes in the hidden layer.
As we can see, we've got four movies over here
and four movies right here.
And what are these movies?
Well, these are just movies that a person has watched,
and we're going to be encoding the rating
or people have left for those movies.
One means a person liked that movie, and zero means a person
didn't like that movie.
That's how it basically works, and now let's have a look
at how this information can be encoded through
the auto encoder.
Before we start, I just wanted to say that this example
actually comes from this blog, "PROBABLY DANCE".
It's a great blog, it's by a person who's actually
a programmer who isn't a Deep Learning scientist,
as I understand but he really broke it down into good steps.
We'll link to this at the end as additional reading,
very great read here,
but for now, let's just walk through this example.
Here we go, let's have a look at these connections.
Well, first of all, we first training the auto encoder.
We're just going to come up with certain connections
right away, certain weights just to prove.
This whole example is to prove that it is possible.
It is possible to take four values and encode them into
actually two values, and carry your data around,
and basically save space and extract those features.
This example just to show that this whole
situation is possible.
We're not gonna worry about the training,
we're not gonna worry about anything else,
we're just going to see how is this possible,
this sounds like magic, right?
So, let's see how this is possible.
First of all we're going to color our synapses
in two different colors, blue and black.
Or light blue and black, were light blue is basically
a multiplication by one, so your weight is plus one,
and black is a multiplication by minus one.
So your weight is minus one.
The other thing I wanted to mention here, in auto encoders,
you normally use
the hyperbolic tangent activation function here and here.
We're not going to be doing that,
in this specific example, we're going to just worry
about the weights and we're just going to forget
about activation function for now completely.
This will just help us understand everything
on an intuitive level. So there we go.
That's how we're going to structure this specific network.
This specific auto encoder, we've already predefined
the weights as such, and this will help us understand
that everything is possible,
this is just a specific example.
Let's have a look at an input.
Let's say as an input, we've got one, zero, zero, zero.
The person just like movie number one,
and they dislike the rest of the movies.
What will the hidden nodes look like in that case?
Well, in that case, hidden nodes will be, this one
will turn into one here, and this one
will turn into one here, because blue is multiplying by one.
These zeros, they will always just add zero, basically,
they're not going to contribute to the hidden nodes.
Once you have that in now, let's calculate each one
of the output nodes.
This is going to be a tedious process, but it's worth it.
There's our input going into the hidden nodes,
and now let's see what happens.
For the top nodes we multiply by a plus one by a plus one
and we get two, for this node we get one times one equals
one, one times minus one equals minus one,
you add them up, you get zero.
Here, you get minus one plus one equals zero, and here
you get minus one minus one equals minus two.
So those are your outputs but those
are actually preliminary outputs.
In Auto Encoder we also have a softmax function on the end.
we have a tutorial on the softmax function
in one of the very early parts of the course,
it's a bonus tutorial, now is the time to probably
go revisit that tutorial if you skipped it at this stage.
Basically what the softmax function does in this case,
is it takes the highest value, so in this case are two
and it turns that into one and everything else into zero.
If you apply a softMax, you will get one
where you see the highest value and then zeros
where you see everything else.
As you can see, this result is indeed identical
to what we input into our network.
All right, so that's the start.
Let's have a look at some other cases.
We're not going to be as detailed,
we're just going to look at the results.
If you input zero, one, zero, zero,
you will see that you get a two over here.
Zero with two minus two zero, and when you apply
the softmax, you get zero, one, zero, zero again, identical.
If you've input a one over here, you get one over here.
If you input a one over here, you get a one over here.
As you can see, as long as in our data set, we've got rows
with just three zeros on one, one, we can encode them
into a small format where we just have two value.
So we just have to have these hidden nodes.
As you can see every state,
is represented by a hidden node.
So you have one, one, you have one minus one,
you have minus one, one, and you have minus one minus one
every state is represented by a hidden layer.
Then you just need these weights, the knowledge about
these weights to reconstruct your output.
Is a very simplified example,
now looking back it is even quite straightforward
that if you have four states here, four possible states,
and you have to by two combinations,
you have four in total, but this gives a overview
of how Auto Encoders work again, in a very simplified way.
Of course are much more complex than that,
so here you can see a much more sophisticated example
where you have way more.
So you have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven,
eight, nine, 10, 11 inputs, two hidden nodes,
and 11 outputs and it still works totally fine.
And this is a reference for additional reading to that same
blog that we already mentioned it's called,
"Neural Networks Are Impressively Are Good At Compression"
by Malte Skarupke and will include it in the additional
resources of course, so definitely check it out.
Nicely written very easy introduction into Auto Encoders.
In fact, I don't think it's even actually mentioned
that it's Auto Encoders from the very start,
just Neural Networks, and then in the comments you can read
that indeed they were talking about Auto Encoders.
Have a look at that,
and I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then, enjoy Deep Learning.